[DRAFT] Toolbelt workflow (#13)
ossf/toolbelt: .github/workflows/README.md

# Toolbelt Workflow

> Goal: A mechanism that implements as many OpenSSF best practices using OpenSSF tools as possible in a way that is simple to use for project maintainers and easy for end users to check projects using this mechanism are following best practices and creating important security metadata (e.g. SBOMs, in-toto SLSA, etc.)

Reviewer: As I understood it, the goal goes beyond "simple use" and is really about requiring minimal changes to existing CI/CD-based builds. If so, the text should probably be a bit more explicit about this. Also, on the end user side, how will the workflow actually help users check projects adherence to best practices? Is seeing that they use the workflow enough of a signal, or is there more they'd have to do to gain assurances?

Reviewer 2: +1 on defining this a bit better. Also better defining if this is meant to be used as a reference architecture, playbook or aimed for production use have fairly different implications on the design decisions in the toolbelt project.

Author: @lumjjb I think in this case a lot of it "depends" -- Ideally we would love to have this be something that is used in production by anyone who has a use case supported by the toolbelt. The issue is finding folks who would use this.

We've gotten folks who have said they're interested but actually getting them to use it is a different story.

Author: Notes from meeting:
- We want this to be in CI/CD since that is the most critical part of the SDLC for stopping malicious stuff from getting in.
- This workflow should ideally focus in Github actions but could expand beyond that.
- Ideally we want this used as the de facto build workflow.
- Here is an example: https://github.com/mlieberman85/skootrs-updates-8/blob/main/.github/workflows/toolbelt.yml

Secondary Goals:

- Highlight where there are gaps in OpenSSF and related practices, frameworks, and tools, or their adoption, especially in different ecosystems (e.g. Sigstore signatures are not supported in Maven)
- Highlight when implementing these practices or adopting the tools is difficult
Show examples following these practices and implementing the tools 

Outcomes:

> - Maintainers should be able to use this mechanism to implement OpenSSF practices and adopt OpenSSF tooling, e.g. add SLSA to their build and turn on Scorecard.

Reviewer 2: nit: inconsistency with using parenthesis for wrapping (e.g. ...)

Author: I'll fix this

> - Maintainers should be able to use this mechanism to implement OpenSSF practices and adopt OpenSSF tooling, e.g. add SLSA to their build and turn on Scorecard.

Reviewer 2: Maintainers and End Users are used in the context of the document, which  seem to me like they are referring to the same persona? (pardon my ignorance)

Author: Let me update the definition. It is maybe better to replace end users with consumers. So Maintainers of the project and consumers of that project will have some overlapping use cases and some non-overlapping use cases.

> - Maintainers should be able to easily know where data is generated, e.g. where SBOMs, SLSA, SAST reports, etc. live so they can use it for later analysis and understanding supply chain risks.

Reviewer: This is might be too complex for the first version of the workflow, but I think it would be great if the workflow incorporated some standard policy checking at certain stages. Maybe it's enough to even start with something basic like signature checking, but the idea is to further reduce extra analysis that maintainers have to do.

Author: Yes, I think that would be something on the roadmap. I was even thinking this could set up a basic in-toto layout.

- End users should also be able to easily know where data is generated, e.g. where SBOMs, SLSA, SAST reports, etc. live so they can use it to make decisions on risk as well as analysis later on when vulnerabilities or supply chain incidents happen.

Requirements:

> - Should be easy to update (e.g. dependency bot should not complain about a dozen things for you to update every other day)

Reviewer 2: perhaps this could be generalized to low end user maintenance requirement? I suspect that if they upgrade their versions of goreleaser or other tooling they'd also have to interact with changing their configurations, which would fall under the same level of toil.

- Should consist of pieces that easily interoperate.

> - Should be as simple as possible for the user as possible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Should be as simple as possible for the user
```
nit

> Proposed MVP Solution: A Github workflow-based solution for Go with Go being widely supported for most of the stuff we need

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
Proposed MVP Solution: A Github Actions workflow-based solution for Go projects with Go being widely supported by most of the tools we're including
```
